What is a computer system?
A computer system is a set of layers, where each layer is working on the actions of the one beneath it.

What are some of the parts of a computer system?
Parts of any computer system include input as well as output hardware components, such as keyboard, printer, screen, television, mouse, projector, microphone, etc.

What is the difference between a compiled language and an intepreted language?
Compiled language is machine code and interpreted language can be read by an interpreter so that someone can test and debug the code.

Is C a compiled language?
Yes, because its course code is translated into machine code by a compiler before execution

Who invented the C language?
Dennis Ritchie

How long has C been in use?
Was created in 1972, so over 50 years

Is a compiler a translator?
Yes it does source code to assembly code.

Is an assembler a translator?
Yes it does assembly code to machine code.

What is the command to list out the contents of a directory on a mac terminal window?
ls

What does the C function atof() do?
Converts a string into a floating point number.

What are the bottom two layers of a computer system? Give a brief desciption of each.
Digital logic layer, and control layer. Digital logic is a hardware where all the operations of the computer run on. The control layer uses the hardware and contains microcode that uses the hardware from the layer below it. 

What are the three steps of the Von Neumann Architecture?
Three main parts are the main memory, CPU, and input/output system.

What is the purpose of an ALU?
The ALU stands for Arithmetic Logic Unit and it does all the calculations and decision making in the computer.

What is a register?
A register is used to keep the instruction’s address.

What is one difference between Application software and System software?
Application software helps users complete specific tasks, while system software is used to help manage the computer’s hardware and run the operating system

Is the phrase cmp rdi, rsi machine language?
Yes, it is assembly language

How many buses are included in the system bus?
3

What is the decimal value of 100101112?
2^7 + 2^4 + 2^2 + 2^1 + 2^0 = 151

What is the decimal value of 111111112?
2^8 - 1 = 255

What is the largest unsigned integer value that will fit into 16 bits?
(1111111111111111) 2^16 - 1 = 65,535
